# GTC 2025 review - Day 1

**作者**: maja性别男，爱好女

**原文链接**: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/30797494443

---

00:27

Today NVIDIA GTC started. Instead of employing first day keynote convention, keynotes are deferred to the next few days. This is a firm response to the market that token business is actually transforming the world in many different aspects as a spark of our new Optimus Primal - LLM.

Mr Huang and many NV staffs participate in most of the talks and events. And I will track the following topics :

- HPC tool chains development, LLM, and my old loving topics about advancements in automative industry

I believe savles from end devices will be strongly driven by <data center solutions> in smart car cabin and autonomous vechiles development without HDMap.

Recently I am working closely with SGLang community on ROCm SDK to accelerate LLM adoption. Based on my hands experiences, I personal believe that AMD benefits form NVIDIA ecosystem.

And you will agree with me that AMD is actually a part of NVIDIA AI echosystem if you have real hands on experiences in LLM tool chain development :

> AMD is essentially the extension of NVIDIA in open source community.

Many high management team in third party misunderstands this core nature between NVIDIA and AMD.

Today's GTC will cover three topics I focusd on :

- agents (SandSar uses LLM in retails)

- 3D assets, 3D GS (application of gen3D and simulation) (*)

- smart cabin (NIO introduces how they train LLM modesl and deploy them in end devices)

- industry digital twins with Apple Pro-Vision with Apple Xcode develop Kit

- prompt engineering (efficient use of LLM with NVIDIA NIM solution)

- heterogeneous computing platform

- profiling with Nsys

- cost efficient LLM inference (*)

We witnessed day 1 reports mainly focusing 3D vision, automative industries. And the case from NIO validate my idea 1 year ago : sales of end devices must be driven from data center solutions.

It is important that because many people misunderstand the telescript from NVDIA last year : 40% sales driven by inference and they believe inference was the major topic in the last year.

However, due to wide adoption of DeepSeek MoE models, LLM inference is roaring up in this quarter, and I am happy to tell you that we are experiencing another high speed growing.
