# ICCAD'19 Trip Report

**作者**: 涂锋斌​清华大学 微电子与纳电子学系博士

**原文链接**: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/97975061

---

很久没有更新专栏了。上次写的时候我还在清华读博，而现在我已经在大洋彼岸开始新的学术生涯。我现在在UCSB谢源教授组（SEAL）做博后，研究方向会延续博士阶段的课题，智能芯片架构设计，并从application-driven和technology-driven进行扩展。后面有机会可以多分享一些在SEAL的见闻。今次分享的是来美国参加的第一个学术会议ICCAD。作为与DAC齐名的EDA领域顶尖会议，它对我而言是来美国后第一次走出校门，和同行交流的好机会。本文内容节选自我在SEAL提交的trip report，所以全部用英文撰写，但我相信大家阅读不会有任何压力。

ICCAD'19 Trip Report, by Fengbin Tu

Westminster, CO, November 4-7, 2019




General Feelings

Thanks to Prof. Xie, I had a good chance to build or refresh connections with researchers in our field. I felt happy and satisfied during the conference, but I found something lost after I returned home in the Thursday evening. The reason is that I only found a few (no more than 5) papers that gave me new ideas about what I can do to extend my research. What we need to know is that ICCAD represents the EDA community. Many of our Chinese friends (from China or US) are quite active in this community, doing research on not only EDA techniques, but also algorithm, architecture and even circuit design. I believe ICCAD's highest-quality part may be the pure EDA sessions, but it may not be a good platform to present/look for excellent arch-related works. This may explain my feeling of lost as well as the excitement for social connections. I will highlight some interesting papers or sessions in the rest part of this report.




Opening Session

Conference Statistics

Best Paper Awards

The best paper awards are given to a front-end work and a back-end work. Although there are already many works not limited to EDA in ICCAD. The best paper awards reclaim ICCAD's emphasis on EDA workflows.




Keynote: Beyond CMOS Technologies for Computing: Prospects and Best Bets

Ian Young, Intel

The history tells us that we have made technology revolution before., like the switch from Bipolar to CMOS. Nowadays, we are exploring beyond-CMOS technologies for faster and more efficient computing systems.




SESSION 1D

Design Automation and DNN for FPGAs




Personally I like SESSION 1D most, because automatic hardware design is always a dream for me. My past several years of designing chips by handcraft often remind me of finding some agile design methods to shorten the design pipeline. Although this area is not quite mature, I will keeping my interests on it.




1D.1 Zac: Towards Automatic Optimization and Deployment of Quantized Deep Neural Networks on Embedded Devices

Yun Liang, PKU

They solve the problem of mapping a quantized deep neural networks on FPGA.




1D.4 NAIS: Neural Architecture and Implementation Search and its Applications in Autonomous Driving

Cong Hao, UIUC

They integrate NAS and hardware implementation search in one framework. The key lies in the bundle with both hardware and software attributes. An interesting work.




2A.1 MAGNet: A Modular Accelerator Generator for Neural Networks

Rangha, NVIDIA

This paper is from SESSION 2A Accelerating Neural Networks, but I categorize it as an design automation work. This may be my favorite work in ICCAD'19.




3A.1 ReDRAM: A Reconfigurable Processing-in-DRAM Platform for Accelerating Bulk Bit-Wise Operations

Deliang Fan, ASU

A processing-in-DRAM work.




SESSION 4A Quantum Computing

SESSION 6D Quantum Computing - Resilience and Security

INVITED LUNCHEON TALK: Current Progress in Quantum Computing

Paul Nation, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center

There are two technical sessions and one invited talk about quantum computing. It's absolutely a promising direction to build the next-generation computer. Working in UCSB has a big advantage, as we can directly discuss with quantum experts in other departments. But right now I don't know where to start.




7B.3 Accelergy: An Architecture-Level Energy Estimation Methodology for Accelerator Designs

Yannan Nellie Wu, MIT

I didn't attend the session at the conference, but I read the paper offline. I like the paper very much. Accelergy is a energy estimation framework for accelerators, and gives (only?) one example of modeling Eyeriss. Accelergy has a primitive component library and an energy generator. It requires some (many?) user inputs to complete accelerator-level energy estimation. User-defined compound component description and energy-estimation plug-ins are required to generate energy reference tables. Action counts generated by a cycle-accurate simulator or analytic model are need for calculate the overall energy. I guess only Eyeriss is verified on Accelergy, although they claim a support for different accelerators. I think it's OK, as doing a comprehensive verification and an end-to-end framework are quite time-consuming. The methodology makes sense.




SESSION 8A In-Memory and Analog-Domain Neural Computing

SESSION 9D Tensor Methods for Accelerated Machine Learning and Electronic Design Automation

The above two sessions are about analog computing and tensor methods.




Workshop on Hardware and Algorithms for Learning On-a-Chip (HALO)

I think the last day's HALO workshop is of the highest quality. Many researches about learning on chip were presented by this field's faculties. Machine learning accelerators, especially NN accelerators have become mature if we just look at the performance and power of NN inference. But it's far from enough to apply them into real applications, or even build an intelligent system. As the last slide from Prof. Yu Wang's talk says, we need explore some new dimensions for NN accelerators like flexibility, security and robustness. Research on NN acceleration never ends, but requires a new vision to upgrade it.
