## 11.8. Miscellaneous Directives


PTX provides the following miscellaneous directives:


  * `.blocksareclusters`

  * `.language`


###  11.8.1. [Miscellaneous Directives: `.blocksareclusters`](#miscellaneous-directives-blocksareclusters)

`.blocksareclusters`

Specify that CUDA thread blocks are mapped to clusters.

Syntax
    
    
    .blocksareclusters
    

Description

Default behavior of CUDA API is to specify the grid launch configuration by specifying the number of thread blocks and the number of threads per block.

When `.blocksareclusters` directive is specified, it implies that the grid launch configuration for the corresponding `.entry` function is specifying the number of clusters, i.e. the launch configuration is specifying number of clusters instead of the number of thread blocks. In this case, the number of thread blocks per cluster is specified by `.reqnctapercluster` directive and the thread block size is specified with the `.reqntid` directive.

`.blocksareclusters` directive is only allowed for `.entry` functions and also needs `.reqntid` and `.reqnctapercluster` directives to be specified.

Refer to _CUDA Programming Guide_ for more details.

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.0.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_90` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    .entry foo .reqntid 32, 32, 1 .reqnctapercluster 32, 32, 1 .blocksareclusters { ... }
    


###  11.8.2. [Miscellaneous Directives: `.language`](#miscellaneous-directives-language)

`.language`

Specify the source language(s) used to generate the kernel or function.

Syntax
    
    
    .language lang-list   // comma separated list of strings or integers
    

Description

The `.language` directive declares the source language(s) from which the code for the corresponding `.entry` or `.func` function was generated. The directive accepts a comma-separated list of language codes, specified as either quoted string names or unsigned integer values.

The `.language` directive is allowed for both `.entry` and `.func` functions and must appear between the function directive and its body.

If the `.language` directive is not specified, the language defaults to `"ptx"`.

Multiple languages may be specified for a single function, indicating mixed-language origins. Language names are case-insensitive.

Language codes specified as unsigned integers must be in the range `[0..10]`. The mapping between string names and integer codes is:

Code | String  
---|---  
0 | “unknown”  
1 | Reserved  
2 | Reserved  
3 | “ptx”  
4 | “nvvm”  
5 | “cuda c++”  
6 | “cuda c++ tile”  
7 | “tile ir”  
8 | “python-cutile”  
9 | “fortran”  
10 | “optix”  
  
PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Supported on all target architectures.

Examples
    
    
    .entry foo () .language "ptx"                    { ... }
    .func bar ()  .language "nvvm", "ptx"            { ... }
    .entry baz () .language "ptx", "cuda c++", 0x7   { ... }
    
