### 9.7.10. Fabric Instructions


_NVLink_ failures encountered by pointer-address-based memory operations are fatal to the application. The CUDA Compute Fabric Transport (CUDA CFT) programming model introduces fabric operations that report failures directly to the application, enabling them to be resilient over _NVLink_ failures. How to handle these failures is entirely up to the application and may include aborting or cleanly tearing the process down, or attempting to recover from transient failures by retrying the operation.


Refer to the [Logical Endpoint section of the CUDA Driver API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__LOGICAL__ENDPOINT.html#logical-endpoint) for the host-side programming model.


####  9.7.10.1. [CFT Handles](#cft-handles)

A CUDA Fabric Transport Handle is composed of two objects:

  * `leId`, a logical endpoint identifier: a 32-bit unsigned integer reference to a logical endpoint

  * `off`, a resource offset: a 64-bit unsigned integer reference to a resource within the logical endpoint.


####  9.7.10.2. [CFT Handles Overview](#cft-handles-overview)

All fabric operations:

  * May fail and report a status that identifies success or potential failure of the operation, enabling applications to react accordingly.

  * Are asynchronous operations, enabling the operation to make progress in the background.

  * Perform some CFT Handle resource accesses via the fabric-proxy. Most fabric operations perform multiple accesses: CFT Handle resource accesses via fabric-proxy, and multiple pointer-based accesses via often multiple different proxies.


#####  9.7.10.2.1. [Fabric Proxy](#fabric-proxy)

Fabric operation accesses to CFT Handle resources are performed through the fabric-proxy. Cross-proxy fences between fabric-proxy and generic-proxy are available.


####  9.7.10.3. [Life of a Fabric Operation](#fabric-operations-lifecycle)

The lifecycle of a handle starts and ends in the host,when the host-side of the CUDA application detects whether the system supports fabric operations, creates logical endpoints, binds resources to the logical endpoints, and shares them with other GPUs in the _NVLink_ domain. To enable remote source accesses the logical endpoint readiness should be queried. The lifecycle of a fabric operation starts and ends in the device. This section only covers the PTX device-side programming model of fabric operations; refer to the [Logical Endpoint section of the CUDA Driver API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__LOGICAL__ENDPOINT.html#logical-endpoint) for the end-to-end programming model of fabric operations spanning host-code and device-code.

The lifecycle of fabric operations includes:

  * Threads issue one or more fabric operations tracked by an `mbarrier.layout::v1`.

  * Each thread submits the fabric operations before the associated _mbarrier phase_ completes.

  * Threads arrive-on and expect-tx at the _mbarrier phase_ to ensure it advances once the fabric operations complete.

  * Threads wait until the _mbarrier phase_ completes.

  * Threads inspect the predicate report for errors, and handle them. The status report may contain additional information about the errors.


#####  9.7.10.3.1. [Issue a Fabric Operation](#issue-fabric-operation)

A thread initiates fabric operations by executing any of the following fabric instructions:

  * `fabric.try_get`: read from CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_put`: write to CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_red`: reduction to CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_pullred`: pull-reduction from CFT handle (`multimem.ld_reduce` equivalent).


#####  9.7.10.3.2. [Submit and then arrive at mbarrier](#fabric-submit-then-arrive-mbarrier)

For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

A single `arrive expect_tx` operation can be issued for multiple and different types of fabric operations tracked by the same barrier.

#####  9.7.10.3.3. [Wait for completion](#fabric-wait-for-completion)

Submitted fabric operations are guaranteed to eventually complete, and threads may block on the `mbarrier` to observe their completion and their report status.

#####  9.7.10.3.4. [Inspect status and handle errors](#fabric-inspect-status-handle-errors)

A single operation like `fabric.try_put` may issue many requests, and each of the requests may fail for a different reason. The failures are [reported on](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-report-on) the _mbarrier_ objects.

Multiple different fabric operations may also be tracked by the same _mbarrier_ object and fail for different reasons.

The `mbarrier.try_wait.phase_type::primary` operation that notifies the program of completion sets the report predicate if there were any errors; the opaque report value may contain more information. See [fabric reporting mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for details. The application can then decide how to handle the errors based on their severity nature.


####  9.7.10.4. [Completion mechanisms of fabric operations](#fabric-completion-mechanisms)

The completion of fabric operations can be tracked by mbarrier objects of type [layout::v1](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout). For details refer to [mbarrier based completion mechanism](#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-asynchronous-copy-completion-mechanisms-mbarrier). Observing completion of a fabric operation provides ordering for all memory accesses and CFT Handle resource accesses performed by the operation, irrespective of whether any errors were reported or not.

In addition to tracking the completion of the fabric operation, a subset of operation effects, such as waiting on reads from shared memory, waiting on changes in a counter value, etc., can also be tracked independently from the entire completion of the operation.

#####  9.7.10.4.1. [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism)

Fabric operations tracked by mbarrier use the `report::fabric` reporting mechanism with the following semantics:

  * If the operation succeeds, the payload report ([contents of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-contents)) is not modified. In other words, report predicate and report value both remain unchanged.

  * Otherwise, the operation fails, the mbarrier report predicate is set, and the opaque report value may contain more information, which may be decoded via the [cudaFabricOpErrorStatusGet/Count](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-runtime-api/group__CUDART__FABRIC.html) APIs.


The behavior of a program that combines fabric operations specifying `report::fabric` with other operations specifying different reporting mechanism is undefined.

#####  9.7.10.4.2. [Fabric-read completion mechanism](#fabric-read-completion-mechanism)

All fabric operations that read data from shared memory support tracking the completion of the read operation. This enables applications to reuse the shared memory read by these operations without waiting for the entire operation to complete. This is a partial completion mechanism, that is, it does not track completion of an entire asynchronous operation.

Note that since `fabric.try_get` does not read from shared memory - it writes to it - this completion mechanism does not provide any ordering for `try_get` operations.

#####  9.7.10.4.3. [Counted completion mechanism](#fabric-counted-completion-mechanism)

Fabric operations support tracking the completion of the destination data accesses performed by `try_put` and `try_red` using a global memory counter. It enables programs to wait on data modifications by observing the counter updates. Multiple fabric operations may share the same counter concurrently. Since concurrent operations are not ordered with respect to each other, programs must wait on the counter reaching a final value.

This mechanism increments a counter by one for each byte of data accessed. The granularity at which counter updates occur is unspecified; updates may happen once per byte, once collectively at the end of the operation, or any granularity in between. The 8B-wide counter must be 256B aligned, and the counter increment is a system-scope atomic operation.

If counter and data overlap, the behavior is undefined. If the logical endpoint lacks support for counted completion, the behavior is undefined (refer to the [Logical Endpoint section of the CUDA Driver API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__LOGICAL__ENDPOINT.html#logical-endpoint) for details).

This is a partial completion mechanism that programs can use to wait on destination data accesses. For `.multimem` fabric operations with counted completion, counters only track accesses at their destination device.


####  9.7.10.5. [Fabric operations](#fabric-operations)

#####  9.7.10.5.1. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.try_get`](#fabric-instructions-try-get)

`fabric.try_get`

Asynchronous copy from fabric handle.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.try_get.async.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.b128 [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar];
    
    .dst = { .shared::cta }
    .completion_mechanism = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric }
    .sem = { .relaxed }
    .scope = { .sys }
    

Description

Asynchronously copies `size` bytes from fabric handle `[srcLeId, srcDataOff]` to destination memory `[dst]`, where `srcLeId` is a 32-bit unsigned value denoting the logical endpoint identifier, and `srcDataOff` is a 64-bit unsigned value denoting the base offset of the resource to access within the logical endpoint associated with `srcLeId`.

The logical endpoint associated with `srcLeId` must be a unicast logical endpoint.

The `size` operand is 32 bits and specifies the number of bytes to be copied. It must be a multiple of 16; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The range `[dst, dst + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the destination memory space. The range `[srcDataOff, srcDataOff + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the logical endpoint resources associated with `srcLeId`.

The source handle offset `srcDataOff` and destination pointer `dst` must be 16-byte aligned.

If `.dst` is `.shared::cta`, then:

  * The destination of the copy `[dst]` and the barrier `[bar]` must refer to the local CTA’s shared memory; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

  * The completion mechanism must be `.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric`.


The `mbarrier` object `bar` must be initialized with `.layout::v1` (see [Layouts of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout)). Qualifier `.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes` specifies that the operation completes by performing a [complete-tx operation](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-complete-tx-operation) with the total number of bytes copied (`size`) on mbarrier object at the location specified by the address operand `bar`. Refer to [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for the description of `.mbarrier::report::fabric`. For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances.

This instruction reads the data at the location specified by the handle operand through the fabric-proxy, copies it to the destination `.shared::cta` memory through the async-proxy, and updates the `mbarrier` object in `.shared::cta` through the generic-proxy.

The completion of this operation may be observed by waiting at the barrier via _CTA-scope_ operations. Threads must submit `fabric` operations and wait for their completion before grid exit; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

Accesses to a source handle are 128-bit-wide atomic with `.relaxed.sys` memory-order semantics as described in the [Memory Consistency Model](#memory-consistency-model).

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    fabric.try_get.async.shared::cta.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric.relaxed.sys.b128 [dstSmem], [srcLeId, srcLeOff], 0x100, [mbar];
    
    fabric.try_get.async.shared::cta.relaxed.sys.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric.b128 [dstSmem], [srcLeId, srcLeOff], sizeBytes, [mbar];
    

#####  9.7.10.5.2. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.try_put`](#fabric-instructions-try-put)

`fabric.try_put`

Asynchronous copy to fabric handle.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.try_put.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism0.sem.scope.b128 [dstLeId, dstDataOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_put.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism0.cp_mask.sem.scope.b128 [dstLeId, dstDataOff], [src], size, [bar], bytemask;
    
    fabric.try_put.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism1.sem.scope.b128 [dstLeId, dstDataOff, dstCounterOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    .src = { .shared::cta }
    .completion_mechanism0 = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric }
    .completion_mechanism1 = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.counted::bytes }
    .sem = { .relaxed }
    .scope = { .sys }
    

Description

Asynchronously copies `size` bytes from `[src]` to destination fabric handle `[dstLeId, dstDataOff]`, where `dstLeId` is a 32-bit unsigned value denoting the logical endpoint identifier, and `dstDataOff` is a 64-bit unsigned value denoting the base offset of the resource to access within the logical endpoint associated with `dstLeId`.

The `size` operand is 32 bits and specifies the number of bytes to be copied. It must be a multiple of 16; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The range `[src, src + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the source memory space. The range `[dstDataOff, dstDataOff + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the resource at the logical endpoint associated with `dstLeId` on the current device.

The source pointer `src` and the destination handle offset `dstDataOff` must be 16-byte aligned.

If the modifier `.multimem` is specified, then `dstLeId` must be associated with a multicast logical endpoint and the device that issues the operation must be a member of that endpoint. In the absence of the `.multimem` modifier, `dstLeId` must be associated with a unicast logical endpoint.

If `.src` is `.shared::cta`, then the source of the copy `[src]` and the barrier `[bar]` refer to the local CTA’s shared memory.

The `mbarrier` object `bar` must be initialized with `.layout::v1` (see [Layouts of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout)). Qualifier `.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B` specifies that the complete-tx operation is performed on `bar` with completion count equal to the number of bytes copied divided by 16; that is, the count is incremented by 1 for every 16 bytes copied. Note that this completion mechanism differs from `fabric.try_get`, where the complete-tx operation uses a completion count equal to the number of bytes copied. For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances.

If the modifier `.counted::bytes` is present (`completion_mechanism1` form), then:

  * `dstLeId` must be associated with a logical endpoint with counted completion support ([Counted completion mechanism](#fabric-counted-completion-mechanism)), and

  * the counter offset `dstCounterOff` must be 256-byte aligned, and

  * this operation provides counter-based completion for destination data using a 256-byte-aligned counter of size 8 bytes spcified at `[dstLeId, dstCounterOff]`.


The `.counted::bytes` modifier is incompatible with the `.cp_mask` modifier.

Refer to [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for the description of `.mbarrier::report::fabric`.

If `.cp_mask` is specified, the `bytemask` operand is required and must contain a 16-bit-wide mask to select which bytes of each 16-byte chunk are written to the destination.

This instruction accesses the data and the counter at the locations specified by the handle operands through the fabric-proxy, reads from the source `.shared::cta` through the async-proxy, and updates the `mbarrier` object in `.shared::cta` through the generic-proxy.

The completion of this operation may be observed by waiting at the barrier via _CTA-scope_ operations. Threads must submit `fabric` operations and wait for their completion before grid exit; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

This operation has `.relaxed.sys` memory-order semantics as described in the [Memory Consistency Model](#memory-consistency-model).

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    fabric.try_put.async.shared::cta.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.relaxed.sys.b128 [dstLeId, dstLeOffData], [srcSmem], 0x100, [mbar];
    
    fabric.try_put.async.counted::bytes.shared::cta.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.relaxed.sys.b128 [dstLeId, dstLeOffData, dstLeOffCntr], [srcSmem], size, [mbar];
    

#####  9.7.10.5.3. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.try_red`](#fabric-instructions-try-red)

`fabric.try_red`

Asynchronous copy to fabric handle with reduction.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism0.sem.scope.redOpBit.typeBit [dstLeId, dstDataOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism0.sem.scope.redOpMinMax.typeMinMax [dstLeId, dstDataOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism0.sem.scope.redOpArith.typeArith [dstLeId, dstDataOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism1.sem.scope.redOpBit.typeBit [dstLeId, dstDataOff, dstCounterOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism1.sem.scope.redOpMinMax.typeMinMax [dstLeId, dstDataOff, dstCounterOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async{.multimem}.src.completion_mechanism1.sem.scope.redOpAdd.typeAdd [dstLeId, dstDataOff, dstCounterOff], [src], size, [bar];
    
    .src = { .shared::cta }
    .completion_mechanism0 = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric }
    .completion_mechanism1 = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.counted::bytes }
    .sem = { .relaxed }
    .scope = { .sys }
    .redOpBit = { .and, .xor, .or }
    .typeBit = { .b32, .b64 }
    .redOpMinMax = { .min, .max }
    .typeMinMax = { .u32, .s32, .u64, .s64, .f16, .bf16 }
    .redOpArith = { .add }
    .typeArith = { .u32, .u64, .f16, .bf16, .f32, .f64 }
    .redOpAdd = { .add }
    .typeAdd = { .u32, .u64, .f16, .bf16, .f32, .f64 }
    

Description

Asynchronously copies `size` bytes from `[src]` to destination fabric handle `[dstLeId, dstDataOff]` with element-wise reduction, where `dstLeId` is a 32-bit unsigned value denoting the logical endpoint identifier, and `dstDataOff` is a 64-bit unsigned value denoting the base offset of the resource to access within the logical endpoint associated with `dstLeId`.

The `size` operand is 32 bits and specifies the number of bytes to be copied. It must be a multiple of 16; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The source range `[src, src + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the source memory space. The destination range `[dstDataOff, dstDataOff + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the logical endpoint associated with `dstLeId` on the current device.

The source pointer `src` and the destination handle offset `dstDataOff` must be 16-byte aligned.

Each data element in the destination array is reduced with the corresponding data element in the source array using the reduction operation indicated by the `.redOp*` modifier. The type of each data element in the source and destination arrays is specified by the matching `.type*` modifier.

If the modifier `.multimem` is specified, then `dstLeId` must be associated with a multicast logical endpoint such that the device that issued the operation is a member of the multicast endpoint. In the absence of the modifier, `dstLeId` must be associated with a unicast logical endpoint.

If `.src` is `.shared::cta`, then the source of the copy `[src]` and the barrier `[bar]` refer to the local CTA’s shared memory.

The `mbarrier` object `bar` must be initialized with `.layout::v1` (see [Layouts of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout)). Qualifier `.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B` specifies that the complete-tx operation is performed on `bar` with completion count equal to the number of bytes copied divided by 16; that is, the count is incremented by 1 for every 16 bytes copied. Note that `fabric.try_get` uses a different completion mechanism in which the complete-tx operation uses a completion count equal to the number of bytes copied. For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances.

If the modifier `.counted::bytes` is present (`completion_mechanism1` form), then:

  * `dstLeId` must be associated with a logical endpoint with counted completion support (see [Counted completion mechanism](#fabric-counted-completion-mechanism) for details), and

  * the counter offset `dstCounterOff` must be 256-byte aligned,

  * the range `[dstCounterOff, dstCounterOff + 7]` is in bounds of the logical endpoint `dstLeId` on the current device, and must not overlap with `[dstDataOff, dstDataOff + size - 1]`, and

  * this operation provides counter-based completion for destination data using a 256-byte-aligned 8-byte counter at `[dstLeId, dstCounterOff]`.


Refer to [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for the description of `.mbarrier::report::fabric`.

This instruction accesses the data and the counter at the locations specified by the handle operands through the fabric-proxy, reads from the source `.shared::cta` through the async-proxy, and updates the `mbarrier` object in `.shared::cta` through the generic-proxy.

The completion of this operation may be observed by waiting at the barrier via _CTA-scope_ operations. Threads must submit `fabric` operations and wait for their completion before grid exit; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

This operation has `.relaxed.sys` memory-order semantics as described in the [Memory Consistency Model](#memory-consistency-model).

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    fabric.try_red.async.shared::cta.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.relaxed.sys.add.u32 [dstLeId, dstLeOffData], [srcSmem], size, [mbar];
    
    fabric.try_red.async.counted::bytes.shared::cta.mbarrier::complete_tx::16B.mbarrier::report::fabric.add.u32 [dstLeId, dstLeOffData, dstLeOffCntr], [srcSmem], size, [mbar];
    

#####  9.7.10.5.4. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.try_pullred`](#fabric-instructions-try-pullred)

`fabric.try_pullred`

Asynchronous copy from fabric handle with pull-reduction.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.redOpBit.typeBit.sync [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar], imm-membermask;
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.redOpMinMax.typeMinMax.sync [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar], imm-membermask;
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.redOpAdd.typeAdd.sync [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar], imm-membermask;
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.redOpAddAcc16.typeAddAcc16.sync [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar], imm-membermask;
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.dst.completion_mechanism.sem.scope.redOpAddAcc32.typeAddAcc32.sync [dst], [srcLeId, srcDataOff], size, [bar], imm-membermask;
    
    .dst = { .shared::cta }
    .completion_mechanism = { .mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric }
    .sem = { .relaxed }
    .scope = { .sys }
    .redOpBit = { .and, .xor, .or }
    .typeBit = { .b32, .b64 }
    .redOpMinMax = { .min, .max }
    .typeMinMax = { .u32, .s32, .u64, .s64, .bf16, .f16, .e4m3, .e5m2 }
    .redOpAdd = { .add }
    .typeAdd = { .u32, .u64, .f16, .bf16, .f32 }
    .redOpAddAcc16 = { .add.acc::f16 }
    .typeAddAcc16 = { .e4m3, .e5m2 }
    .redOpAddAcc32 = { .add.acc::f32 }
    .typeAddAcc32 = { .f16, .bf16 }
    

Description

Initiates asynchronous loads from multiple resources pointed to by multicast fabric handle `[srcLeId, srcDataOff]`, of `size` bytes, and performs element-wise reduction on data across each of the loads. The result is stored in `[dst, dst + size - 1]`. `srcLeId` is a 32-bit unsigned value denoting the logical endpoint identifier, and `srcDataOff` is a 64-bit unsigned value denoting the base offset of the resources to access within the multicast logical endpoint associated with `srcLeId`.

The `size` operand is 32 bits and specifies the number of bytes to be copied. It must be a multiple of 16; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The destination range `[dst, dst + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the destination memory space. The source range `[srcDataOff, srcDataOff + size - 1]` must be in bounds of the logical endpoint associated with `srcLeId` on the current device.

The destination pointer `dst` and the source handle offset `srcDataOff` must be 16-byte aligned.

A reduction is performed on the values read from all resources referred to by the multicast logical endpoint. The `.redOp*` modifiers specify the reduction operation. The `.type*` modifiers specify the type of each data element in the source arrays.

The `srcLeId` operand must be associated with a multicast logical endpoint with pull-reduction support, and the device that issues the operation must be a member of the multicast endpoint.

If `.dst` is `.shared::cta`, then the destination `[dst]` and the barrier `[bar]` refer to the local CTA’s shared memory.

The `mbarrier` object `bar` must be initialized with `.layout::v1` (see [Layouts of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout)). Qualifier `.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes` specifies that the complete-tx operation is performed on `bar` with completion count equal to the number of bytes copied. For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances.

Refer to [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for the description of `.mbarrier::report::fabric`.

This instruction accesses data at the locations specified by the handle operands through the fabric-proxy, accesses the destination `.shared::cta` through the async-proxy, and updates the `mbarrier` object in `.shared::cta` through the generic-proxy.

The completion of this operation may be observed by waiting at the barrier via _CTA-scope_ operations. Threads must submit `fabric` operations and wait for their completion before grid exit; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

This operation has `.relaxed.sys` memory-order semantics as described in the [Memory Consistency Model](#memory-consistency-model).

The `.sync` qualifier indicates that this instruction causes the issuing thread to wait until warp lanes selected in `imm-membermask` execute this instruction with the same operand values. The behavior is undefined if:

  * while a thread is waiting, a warp lane selected in `imm-membermask` executes this instruction with different operand values, or

  * any thread selected in `imm-membermask` has exited, or

  * the value of `imm-membermask` is not the immediate `0xFFFFFFFF`.


PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Reduction operations `.add.acc::f16` and `.add.acc::f32` are supported on following architectures:

  * `sm_120a`

  * `sm_121a`

  * `sm_100f` or higher in the same family

  * `sm_110f` or higher in the same family


Reduction operations `.min` and `.max` on types `.e4m3` and `.e5m2` are supported on following architectures:

  * `sm_120a`

  * `sm_121a`

  * `sm_100f` or higher in the same family

  * `sm_110f` or higher in the same family


Examples
    
    
    fabric.try_pullred.async.multimem.mbarrier::complete_tx::bytes.mbarrier::report::fabric.shared::cta.f32.add.sync.relaxed.sys [dst], [leId, offset], size, [mbar], imm-membermask;
    

#####  9.7.10.5.5. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.submit`](#fabric-instructions-submit)

`fabric.submit`

Submits prior fabric operations issued by the current thread.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.submit{.submitop};
    
    .submitop = { .op_restrict::fetching }
    

Description

Submits prior fabric operations issued by the current thread. For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined. See [Life of a Fabric Operation](#fabric-operations-lifecycle).

If `.op_restrict::fetching` is specified, then only prior `fabric.try_get` and `fabric.try_pullred` operations issued by the current thread are submitted. Otherwise, all prior fabric operations issued by the current thread are submitted.

This operation has no effect on fabric operations that have already been submitted.

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    fabric.submit.op_restrict::fetching;
    
    fabric.submit;
    

#####  9.7.10.5.6. [Fabric Instructions: `fabric.wait`](#fabric-instructions-wait)

`fabric.wait`

Wait on local shared-memory reads of submitted fabric operations.

Syntax
    
    
    fabric.wait.sync_restrict::reads;
    

Description

Fabric-read completion mechanism instruction `fabric.wait` waits on the local shared memory (`.shared::cta`) reads of submitted fabric operations. This enables overwriting the shared memory read by these operations before they complete.

PTX ISA Notes

Introduced in PTX ISA version 9.3.

Target ISA Notes

Requires `sm_100` or higher.

Examples
    
    
    fabric.wait.sync_restrict::reads;
    
