#### 9.7.10.4. Completion mechanisms of fabric operations


The completion of fabric operations can be tracked by mbarrier objects of type [layout::v1](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-object-layout). For details refer to [mbarrier based completion mechanism](#data-movement-and-conversion-instructions-asynchronous-copy-completion-mechanisms-mbarrier). Observing completion of a fabric operation provides ordering for all memory accesses and CFT Handle resource accesses performed by the operation, irrespective of whether any errors were reported or not.


In addition to tracking the completion of the fabric operation, a subset of operation effects, such as waiting on reads from shared memory, waiting on changes in a counter value, etc., can also be tracked independently from the entire completion of the operation.


#####  9.7.10.4.1. [Fabric Reporting Mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism)

Fabric operations tracked by mbarrier use the `report::fabric` reporting mechanism with the following semantics:

  * If the operation succeeds, the payload report ([contents of the mbarrier object](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-contents)) is not modified. In other words, report predicate and report value both remain unchanged.

  * Otherwise, the operation fails, the mbarrier report predicate is set, and the opaque report value may contain more information, which may be decoded via the [cudaFabricOpErrorStatusGet/Count](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-runtime-api/group__CUDART__FABRIC.html) APIs.


The behavior of a program that combines fabric operations specifying `report::fabric` with other operations specifying different reporting mechanism is undefined.


#####  9.7.10.4.2. [Fabric-read completion mechanism](#fabric-read-completion-mechanism)

All fabric operations that read data from shared memory support tracking the completion of the read operation. This enables applications to reuse the shared memory read by these operations without waiting for the entire operation to complete. This is a partial completion mechanism, that is, it does not track completion of an entire asynchronous operation.

Note that since `fabric.try_get` does not read from shared memory - it writes to it - this completion mechanism does not provide any ordering for `try_get` operations.


#####  9.7.10.4.3. [Counted completion mechanism](#fabric-counted-completion-mechanism)

Fabric operations support tracking the completion of the destination data accesses performed by `try_put` and `try_red` using a global memory counter. It enables programs to wait on data modifications by observing the counter updates. Multiple fabric operations may share the same counter concurrently. Since concurrent operations are not ordered with respect to each other, programs must wait on the counter reaching a final value.

This mechanism increments a counter by one for each byte of data accessed. The granularity at which counter updates occur is unspecified; updates may happen once per byte, once collectively at the end of the operation, or any granularity in between. The 8B-wide counter must be 256B aligned, and the counter increment is a system-scope atomic operation.

If counter and data overlap, the behavior is undefined. If the logical endpoint lacks support for counted completion, the behavior is undefined (refer to the [Logical Endpoint section of the CUDA Driver API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__LOGICAL__ENDPOINT.html#logical-endpoint) for details).

This is a partial completion mechanism that programs can use to wait on destination data accesses. For `.multimem` fabric operations with counted completion, counters only track accesses at their destination device.
