#### 9.7.10.3. Life of a Fabric Operation


The lifecycle of a handle starts and ends in the host,when the host-side of the CUDA application detects whether the system supports fabric operations, creates logical endpoints, binds resources to the logical endpoints, and shares them with other GPUs in the _NVLink_ domain. To enable remote source accesses the logical endpoint readiness should be queried. The lifecycle of a fabric operation starts and ends in the device. This section only covers the PTX device-side programming model of fabric operations; refer to the [Logical Endpoint section of the CUDA Driver API](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-driver-api/group__CUDA__LOGICAL__ENDPOINT.html#logical-endpoint) for the end-to-end programming model of fabric operations spanning host-code and device-code.


The lifecycle of fabric operations includes:


  * Threads issue one or more fabric operations tracked by an `mbarrier.layout::v1`.

  * Each thread submits the fabric operations before the associated _mbarrier phase_ completes.

  * Threads arrive-on and expect-tx at the _mbarrier phase_ to ensure it advances once the fabric operations complete.

  * Threads wait until the _mbarrier phase_ completes.

  * Threads inspect the predicate report for errors, and handle them. The status report may contain additional information about the errors.


#####  9.7.10.3.1. [Issue a Fabric Operation](#issue-fabric-operation)

A thread initiates fabric operations by executing any of the following fabric instructions:

  * `fabric.try_get`: read from CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_put`: write to CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_red`: reduction to CFT Handle

  * `fabric.try_pullred`: pull-reduction from CFT handle (`multimem.ld_reduce` equivalent).


#####  9.7.10.3.2. [Submit and then arrive at mbarrier](#fabric-submit-then-arrive-mbarrier)

For any thread to observe completion of fabric operations via an `mbarrier` object, the issuing thread is required to submit those operations before the barrier phase tracking these operations advances. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

A single `arrive expect_tx` operation can be issued for multiple and different types of fabric operations tracked by the same barrier.


#####  9.7.10.3.3. [Wait for completion](#fabric-wait-for-completion)

Submitted fabric operations are guaranteed to eventually complete, and threads may block on the `mbarrier` to observe their completion and their report status.


#####  9.7.10.3.4. [Inspect status and handle errors](#fabric-inspect-status-handle-errors)

A single operation like `fabric.try_put` may issue many requests, and each of the requests may fail for a different reason. The failures are [reported on](#parallel-synchronization-and-communication-instructions-mbarrier-report-on) the _mbarrier_ objects.

Multiple different fabric operations may also be tracked by the same _mbarrier_ object and fail for different reasons.

The `mbarrier.try_wait.phase_type::primary` operation that notifies the program of completion sets the report predicate if there were any errors; the opaque report value may contain more information. See [fabric reporting mechanism](#fabric-reporting-mechanism) for details. The application can then decide how to handle the errors based on their severity nature.
